Q1. What do you mean by Linux? Explain its features.

Linux is a Unix-like open-source computer operating system (OS) that directly manages hardware and resources of a system such as CPU, memory,
and storage, and manages the communication between software and hardware. It was first released on 5 October 1991 by Linus Torvalds for computers
and is considered more secure and faster than Windows. It is freely distributable and is generally built around Linux Kernel (low-level system 
software that is used to manage hardware resources for users). Furthermore, it can be installed in mobiles, laptops, computers, notebooks, etc.
Flavors of Linux OS include Ubuntu, Debian, SUSE Linux, Gentoo, etc.  

Some important features of Linux OS include: 

1) Free and Open Source: It is freely and easily available to anyone.
2) Robust and Adaptable: Linux can operate for prolonged periods without crashing and considered to have very much immune to security threats.
3) More secure: It is more secure as it provides security using authentication features like password authentication, security auditing, and file system access control.
4) Multiprogramming System: More than one can function or an application can run simultaneously.
5) Application Support: It has its own software repository i.e., place or storage location from where software can be retrieved so that users can download and install applications.
6) Supports customized keywords: There are many different languages used throughout the world, therefore Linux supports the installation of multiple languages keyboards.
7) GUI (Graphical User Interface): It provides an interface for users to interact with the system and allows to use of GUI applications such as VLC, Firefox, etc.
8) Enhance your chances of performing well in the interviews with our comprehensive guide, which covers important topics on Linux to help freshers, as well as experienced candidates,
    ace their interviews.


Q2. What are basic elements or components of Linux?

1) Kernel: It is considered a core or main part of Linux and is generally responsible for all major activities of OS such as process management, 
   device management, etc.  
2) System Library: These are special functions or programs with the help of which application programs or system utilities can access features of 
   the kernel without any requirement of code. It is simply used to implement the functionality of the OS. 
3) System Utility: These are utility programs that are responsible to perform specialized and individual-level tasks. They are considered more liable 
   and allow users to manage the computer.  
4) Hardware: It is physical hardware that includes items such as a mouse, keyboard, display, CPU, etc. 
5) Shell: It is an environment in which we can run our commands, shell scripts, and programs. It is an interface between user and kernel that hides all
    complexities of functions of the kernel from the user. It is used to execute commands. 

Q3.  What is BASH?

BASH (Bourne Again Shell) is basically a command language interpreter. It was written by Brian Fox for GNU OS and can be used in place of Bourne Shell.
It is similar to Bourne Shell but includes some additional features such as command-line editing that make it easier and more convenient to use. It is 
the default user shell on most Linux installations. It is basically an interpreted and non-compiled process that can also run in the terminal window. 
It is also capable of reading commands from shell scripts.

Q4. What are two types of Linux User Mode?

There are two types of Linux user mode as given below:  

1. Command Line 
2. GUI  

Q5. What is LILO? 

LILO (Linux Loader) is basically a bootloader for Linux that is used to load Linux into memory and start the OS. It is also known as a boot manager that
facilitates a dual boot of a computer. It can function as either a master boot program or secondary boot program and performs various functions such as
locating kernel, identifying other supporting programs, loading memory, and starting the kernel. If you want to use Linux OS, then you need to install a 
special bootloader i.e., LILO for it as it allows fast boot of Linux OS. 

Q6. What is swap space?

Swap space, as the name suggests, is basically a space on a hard disk that is used when the amount of physical memory or RAM is full. It is considered a 
substitute for physical memory. Its main function is to substitute disk space for RAM memory when real RAM does not have enough space to hold all programs
that are executing, and more space is required. In simple words, it can be used as an extension of RAM by Linux.

Q7. What is a maximum length for a filename under Linux?

The maximum length for a filename under Linux is 255 bytes. 

Q8.  Name the Linux that is specially designed by Sun micro system.

Linux that is specially designed by Sun micro system is Solaris.

Q9.  Under the Linux system, what is the typical size for swap partitions?

The typical size for a swap partition under a Linux system should be twice the amount of physical memory or RAM available on the system.

Q10. Name the file that is used to automatically mount file systems.

File that is used to automatically mount file systems is a Fstab file. 


Q11.  What is LVM and why is it required?

LVM (Logical Volume Management) is basically a tool that provides logical volume management for the Linux kernel. It is being introduced 
simply to make physical storage device management easier. It also includes allocating disks, striping, mirroring, resizing logical volumes. 
Its main advantages are increased abstraction, flexibility, and control. It simply allows for flexible disk space management. It is especially 
required to resize the size of the file system online. In Linux, the size of the LVM partition can be extended using “lvextend” command and can be
reduced using “lvreduce” commands, respectively.  


Q12. What is a “/proc” file system?

Proc file system is a pseudo or virtual file system that provides an interface to the kernel data structure. It generally includes useful information 
about processes that are running currently. It can also be used to change some kernel parameters at runtime or during execution. It is also regarded as
a control and information center for the kernel. All files under this directory are named virtual files.

Q13. Name daemon that controls the print spooling process.

The daemon that controls that print spooling process is the Line printing daemon. 

Q14. What is the difference between cron and anacron?

Cron: It is a program in Linux that is used to execute tasks at a scheduled time. It works effectively on machines that run continuously. 

Anacron: It is a program in Linux that is used to execute tasks at certain intervals. It works effectively on machines that are powered off in a day or week. 

Q15.  What is load average in Linux?

Load average, as the name suggests, is the average system load on Linux servers being calculated over a given period of time. The load average of Linux servers
can be found using “top” and “uptime” commands. It is simply used to keep track of system resources. It is represented by a decimal number starting at 0.00.  
It tells you the load that the system has been under.







